Strings
. Length of a String
. First element of a string.
. Last element of a string.
. How is getting the last element of string here different from R
. First three elements of a string.
. First to 2nd last element of a string.
. Last to first element of a string; printed in that order; 1 line of code.
. S = "helloWorld"; print every alternative word
. S = "Spam"; What is the result of S[1] = "l"
. What is the result of S[0]+"l"+S[2:3]
.print concatenated string wiht "Hello" "World"
. S= "Spam". How do you convert this to a list
. a = ["a","b","c"] is a list; Change b -> m and output a string (1 LOC)
. S = "This,world,of,mine"; Output individual words and remove the comma
. S = "This,world,of,mine"; Make a string output without comma but space between words
. S = "Triple"' what is the poistion of "r; 
. S = "Triple"' what is the return value for position of "x" which is not in triple
. S = "Hello Sun" ; Replace sun with "moon"
. u = animal name (e.g lion), v = bird name (e.g); Output that "animal" and "bird" are best friends; Note animal and bird are variables
. How to Declare a string that contains ' or "
. Declare two string and concatenate them
. Declare a string and print it 3 times.
. Variable substitution  in print statements %  and .format
. Declare a string = "Jupiter" find the position of pi
. change teh string "jupiter" to juniper
. here is string "hello,world"; create a list where each index holds one word
. Assign a = "5"; check if this is digit or not
. String a = "hello" ; Change into upper case.
. String a = "spam"; check if the string ends with "am"; dont use membership function
. Repeat a string 5 times.
. Declare a string: Use for loop to go over that.
. Declare a string and reverse it using slicing
. Declare a string "42"; convert into integer and add 5
. Declare a number 25; Add it to a string and get "25 Wolves"
. Declare a string "Spam !";  and change it to "Spam Burger !"
. Declare a string "Hello World"; replace to say "Hello Human"
. Declare a string and Capitalize it
. Declare a string and uncapitalize it
. Declare a string "This little light of mine"' find position of "tt"
. Declare a string "This little light of mine"' find if it ends with ine
. Check is  a string is alpha, isa numeric, identified, digit, lower case, printable, is numeric, lower, space, title, upper using string methods
. Morph S="spammy' to "spaxxy"
. Do the same thing with replace method
. S = xxxxSPAMxxxxx ; Replace SPAM with EGGS
. S=Spammy" Change the string into a list and change mm  to xx; you can c use indexing in list
. line = "i'amSPAMaSPAMlumber"; how to get i'am a lumber from here
. In string what are modifiers %d, %s, %g
. x = 1.23456789; print in exponenst, decimal
. for x above, what does %-6.2f, %05.2f,%+6.1f give ? which one shows significant digits or digits after decimal


Lists:
. Declare a list with characters a,b,c.
. How is the declaration of list in python different from R. 
.  Compare declaration of list in python and array in R.
. Declare a list with integer 1, 2,3 and characters a, b, c
. L = list of 1-5; How to access first number in the list
. How do you access array elements in R, any similarity between list in python and array in r
. How to access last number of list
. How to access 1st to 2nd last element of the the list
. How to access from 2nd to end of the list.
.  Reverse the list using slicing.
.  Reverse the list and do not print the first number
. Declare a list of greek letters alpha beta gamma; Add delta and epsilon to the list using a class function on list
. Add another element using + 
. Define a list within a list and access the 2nd element of the inner list.
. output first two elements of the list; they should be deleted from list as well; 1LOC
. Declare two lists of numbers and add them
. Declare list of numbers; double them [1,2] -> [1,2,1,2]
. Declare list of number; multiply each of them by 2 (Is this possible ?) 3 LOC possible
. Declare list of numbers as characters; multiply each of them by 2
. Sort a given list of array.
. Reverse print the elements of array
. Multi dimensional lists(MDL): Declare a list with 3 sets of list in them
. Print the MDL like a matrix of say 3x3
. Print element 0,0 of the matrix (MDL and element 2,2, of the matrix
. print all the rows of the matrix (MDL) (elemeny by element - not sure?); print every row
. Print first column using the fact that it is row[0] for each row.
. Add 5 to each row and print them
. print all the columns of the matrix(MDL)
. print first columen using fact that it is row[0] for each row.; print only results if they are even
	hint [row[0] for row in matrix if the element r[0] is divsible by 2

. print a squence of number from 1:10; use a function
. use the same function to print in increment of 2.
. what is this similar with in R.
. Declare a list from 1-5; check if 3 is in the list
. What is the difference between list methods append and extend
. Insert an element at 2nd index location; do not use l[1] notation; Use list method
. Declare a list 1:5; what is index of 3; use list method
. Declare a list and sort it; sort it to reverse.
. Delete an element from the list; Does it deleter all instances of the element?
. insert 3 elements in begining of list with 1LOC #search if needed
. Declare a list 0-5; Replace 2 elements starting index 1 with a new list of 5 elements. Only element till index 3 should be replace; remaining of the (5-2 = 3) elements should just be inserted
(not complicated; think insert by slicing)
. list comprehension: comprehension expression for square of first 10 numbers
. duplicate alphabets in a list and put the duplicatesin a string 3-4 LOC




Dicitionaries
. Declare a dictionary: index/keys = numbers, values = colors
. Start an empty dicitionary and fill it with index = numbers and values = color
. Use dict function to delcare the dictionaries
. User zip to declare a dictionary
. print the keys of a dictionary.
. print the values of a dictionary
. Declare a dictionary with employee name jobs and age; Name is another dicitionrary with elements being first and last name.
. Print the last name of the person.
. Check if a particular key exists in dicitionary.
. Another way to check fif a particular key missing.
. Add a new key value pair in dictionary.
. Use comprehension and if a key exists in a dicitionary; else return 0 or -1
. Declare a list from 1-5; check if 3 is in the list
. Sort the keys and print dictionary

Tuples
. Declare a tuple of 4 integers
. length of the tuple
. Declare a mixed tuple of characters and integers
. Declare a tuple and access it first value.
. Last element of a tuple.
. 2nd to last element of the tuple.
. print first to last of a tuple.
. Declare a tuple and change the value of first element.
. Add two tuples (is the tuples added together or the elements added together)
. print the index of the first element.
. print an index of a recurring element
. print number of occurences of an element 1LOC
. printed a sorted list according to keys

Sets
. Declare a set of 10 characters
. Declare 2 sets of 10 characters and show their intersection
. Declare a set of numbers. Any issues ? What we must use to declare numbers insider set
. Declare 2 sets of 10 characters each: Show their union, differnece, intersection XOR, superset, subset, membership
. Check if using set methods changes the original set. e.g a.union(b); does it change a
. Repeat the following operation with methods on set objects : differnece, union, intersection, union, 
. merge, delete element from a set
. Write a for loop to multiplly each elemen in set by 3.
. Declare a list of numbers as a set
. Apply 'or' operation on set of numbers
. Union of two sets of numbers
. Declare 2 sets of 5 elements in curly bracket and assign them to sets
. Declare a set and convert the elements to a list.
. Declare a list and convert them into set

Working of References:
. Declare a variable a and assign it a value; assign b same as a; assign new value to a; what happens to b
. Declare a variable a and assign it a value; assign b same as a; add 2 to a; what happens to b
. Declare a list of 5 elements = L1. User assignment operator to assign another list to this L2= L1; Change L1[0]; what happens to L2
. Declare a list of 5 elements = L1. User assignment operator to assign another list to this L2= L1[:]; Change L1[0]; what happens to L2
. Declare an list 4 elements L; Let M = L. CHeck if L & M are equal
. Declare an list 4 elements L 1,2,3; Let M list of same elements 1,2,3. CHeck if L & M are equal
 
